Ecco the Dolphin Walkthrough by blackfin

Using this walkthrough :

I have not given locations of enemies, you will have to deal with them as they appear. No air sources or fish schools have been listed you will need to watch you health/air and find these using you sonar map when you need them. At some points I may have mixed up left and right, if instructions don't work in the direction listed look to see if they work going in another direction. If you get lost following the walkthrough use your sonar map to look for items I mention such as glyphs from their locations you should be able to work out where to go.

Intro : Home Bay

This isn't officially a level but some people get stuck here. You need to dive down to the bottom and then swim up towards the surface fast and jump high into the air. Once you jump high enough a "storm" will sweep through and suck up your pod. Once that happens the rocks that were blocking the passage in the right side of the level will be removed and you can swim into that passage to go onto the first level.

Level 1 : Bay of Medusa

Swim forward and jump over the island blocking your path. Then swim down and then into the passage on the left. Jump over the rock in the middle of the passage. Swim down the vertical shaft just past the rock. When you get to the bottom of the shaft turn right, then turn down, then turn right again. Swim forward and talk to the orca and get the keysong from the glyph. Retrace the path you took until you exit from the first passage you entered (the one straight after you jumped over the island). Swim to the right across the area filled with jellyfish. When you get to the far side, find the barrier glyph use the keysong to pass it and exit the level.

Level 2 : The Undercaves - A deep maze of caverns with no surface to the dry side. Songs of the sea sing of great danger in this place.

Swim up and get the key song from the glyph in the passage above you. Swim to the left cross the vertical passage when the current is going up not when it is going down (watch the bubbles to see the direction the current is going), use the key song to pass the barrier glyph. Swim left along the lower passage, charge into the spiked shells to destroy them. When you have destroyed enough shells to make a hole big enough to swim through, swim through the gap and then swim up. You will firstly pass a passage on the right with current sucking into it (don't get sucked in)m then you will pass a passage block by rocks, swim into the passage after the blocked one. At the second vertical passage swim up and then to the right. Get the key song from the glyph at the end of the passage. Then swim back along the passage (you will need to charge to get past the current) go down the vertical passage and swim to the left until you arrive back above the passage that is blocked by rocks. Swim up and push the spiral shell off towards the blocked passage, push it as it falls so it hits the rocks blocking the passage. They (if hit) will vanish allowing access to the passage, swim into the passage, use the key song to pass the barrier glyph. Continue swimming to the right, at the end of the passage swim up. Pass the octopus (eight arms) swimming very slowly, if you swim fast it will slam you into the wall with it's tentacle. After you get past it swim to the left and get the key song from the glyph at the far end of the passage. Swim back and go back pass the octopus and swim down, use the key song to pass the barrier glyph. Swim down, then to the swim into the passage on the left, go to the glyph at the far end and get the keysong. Swim back along the passage until you reach the area under the octopus, find the key glyph and use the keysong to pass it. Enter the passage behind it to exit the level.

Level 3 : The Vents - Giant cracks in the ocean floor have strong upward currents of warm water. After the storm, songs of three trapped dolphins are heard here...

Swim down and to the right, when you reach the vent in the sea floor, push the rock on the right side in the vent in the vent, follow it down into the vent using it to pass through the current. Go down the vent until you pass the spiked shell in the middle of the vent, turn into the first left passage after the spiked shell. Swim to the left, get a key song from the glyph, swim up and swim in front of the dolphin above you until it follows you. Return the vent and allow yourself to be pulled to the surface. Swim near the dolphin to the left of the entrance to the vent, until the dolphin following you swims away. Return to the vent, and enter it using the rock again. Enter the second passage going to the right, swim to the end and allow your self to be pulled up the vertical passage at the end of it. Push the rock at the top into the vertical passage and use it to go down to the bottom of the vertical passage you just came up. After you pass the rock pointing out from the right of the passage on the way down you will need to nudge the rock to the right so you are on the right side of the passage (if you are on the left side you won't be able to get to the passage before being swept back up the passage) when you get to the bottom swim to the right, use the key song to pass the barrier glyph. Swim up and to the right go into the small passage and get a key song from the glyph, go down to the lower passage that goes to the right, charge to destroy the spiked shells blocking the passage. Use the key song to pass the barrier glyph, swim up and charge to get past the barrier of spiked shells. Get a key song from the glyph, swim to the left along the passage, swim up and use the key song to pass the barrier glyph, swim in front of the dolphin until it follows you. Retrace you steps along the passages to get to the surface, the barrier glyphs will have reappeared you will need to get key songs from all the key glyphs on the way back. Swim in near the dolphin on the surface until the dolphin you just rescued swims away, jump over all the islands to the right until you reach a long island (twice as large as the others), swim under it and push the rock on the right hand side of the vent under the island into it, follow the rock down. Swim into the second passage to the left and get a keysong from the glyph. Return to the vent and allow yourself to be sucked to the surface, push the rock it again, swim down after it. Use the key song to get rid of the barrier glyph at the bottom. Swim into the bottom passage on the right and rescue the dolphin. Take it back to the other dolphins to get awarded a new attack. Return to the vent and swim into the second passage on the right (from the bottom) to exit the level.

Level 4 : The Lagoon - The songs of the sea sing of the stone eating stars that live in this place. A dolphin sings for her trapped pod.

Swim straight down, at the bottom you will find the first trapped dolphin (not very 'trapped' is it?) get it to follow you. Swim back up to the surface and jump over the island to the right. Swim to the right until you reach another dolphin. When the dolphin following you swims away, swim back to the left and jump over three islands going left. After you jump over the third island swim diagonally down and to the left, you should see a ridge pointing up and a spiral shell (the kind that breaks rocks) falling. Follow the shell down. After it breaks through the rock turn to the right and swim across the area with the current going up it. Once you pass the spikes, swim down and collect the dolphin swimming around, swim into the passage slightly lower down and get a key song. Swim back out of the passage and up to the top right of the chamber, you will find a ring of stars use you sonar to push it down and to the left, push it pass the spikes through the passage with the current that you entered through. Push it up (the rock blocking the passage will have reappeared) and use it to destroy the rock blocking the passage. Swim to the surface and take the dolphin to the other dolphins on the surface. After you do that swim to the right and jump over one island (you will be back where you started the level). Swim down to the second passage on the right hand wall (not the one with the tentacles) it is blocked by a spiked shell, charge to destroy it. Swim to the right (swim down when you are blocked by rocks in the way), you will end up swimming through a narrow passage with spikes below it, beyond it is a chamber with a ring of stars in it. Push the ring of stars up and to the left, push it upwards as soon as you can, you will reach an octopus as you go up, as soon as you pass the octopus swim to the left. Use the ring of stars to destroy the rock, continue to swim right (don't go up or you will be sucked up to the surface, use the key song to disarm the barrier glyph. Turn down at the vertical passage, then turn left, then turn down, then turn left again. The third dolphin is at the end of the passage, get it to follow you, then retrace your steps to the point just before the octopus, go up the vertical passage, you will be sucked up the surface near the other dolphins. You will be given the power to confuse enemies by hitting them with your sonar. Swim to the left and jump over the island, swim down and through the passage that was blocked by the spiked shell, swim forward and then up to get back to the octopus. Swim past the octopus and to the right, when you get to the vertical passage past where the barrier glyph was, swim straight down it. Then swim left, when you reach the spiral shell push it along, let the shell drop down and destroy the rocks blocking the passage, swim along the lower passage to the right. When you get to the end of the passage you will need to swim through a current pushing up to get to the lower passage going to the left (this is quite hard), swim to the left, then up the vertical passage, then left. As soon as you leave the passage swim up, find the ring of stars and push them down and to the left, enter the low down passage on the left of the cavern. Swim left still pushing the ring of stars, use them to destroy the stones at the end of the passage. Swim up and to the right, then swim up the passage with the spiked shells falling from it to exit the level.

Level 5 : Ridge Water - Two cold water ponds connected by a maze of shell and stone. To pass ridge water one must have great knowledge of the sea.

Swim down and to the right, until you reach the vent in the sea floor with the current flowing out of it. Push the rock on the right side of the vent into it and follow it down, swim into the passage on the left. Carefully swim around between the spiral shell and the vent (don't get sucked back to the surface) and push the spiral shell to the left. Use the shell to pass the rock barrier, swim as far as you can go to the left, then swim up, at the top get the keysong from the glyph. Swim down against the current flowing into the area with the glyph, when you get to the bottom of the current, swim right, you will see a spiral shell, push it to the left and let it fall down. It will hit a rock barrier below you allowing you access to a new passage, swim right along the new passage. When you get to the end use the key song to get past the barrier glyph. Swim up and to the right, swim along the top passage (the lower one is blocked), after swimming for a while you will reach the end of the passage where you will find a ring of stars. Push it back along the passage, when you get to the end push it down and use it to get through the rocks blocking the lower passage. Swim down and to the right, continue to follow the lower passage right until you reach some rocks blocking it. At that point swim up and to the left, when you reach the jellyfish look for a narrow passage in the rocks to right, there is a ring of stars in it. Push it back to the rocks blocking the passage and use it to get past them, continue swimming along the passage to the right. At the open area with jellyfish swim up past the jellyfish, swim into the small passage in the left hand wall. Swim past the jellyfish and spiked shells to reach the surface. Swim down to the level of the sea floor, then swim to the left, when you get to passage in the bays left wall get the key song from the glyph. Swim to the right along the sea floor, just past a dip in the height of the sea floor you will find a barrier glyph, use the key song to pass it. Swim along to the end of the passage to exit the level.

Level 6 : Open Ocean - The open ocean is hard and dangerous

This level is just a huge open area filled with sharks. I would advise (there may be other ways of doing this) diving to the bottom then swimming to the right while constantly hitting the charge button. When you get low on air swim up diagonally (while still going right) and jump into the air the dive back to the bottom. When you reach the far side of the level you should just swim off the screen and level will end (sometimes you don't go off straight away if this happens swim up and down you will swim off the screen eventually.

Level 7 : Ice Zone - Dark cold water with few places to breath. Strange cold water creatures live in this place. Distant songs are heard but not understood.

Swim up and to the left jump out of the water onto the ice, you will slide along it, at the second shaft leading into back into the water, renter the water and swim down. Swim to the left, then swim down, swim to the left, swim up and to the left, get the keysong from the glyph. Swim to the right and up the shaft until you reach the surface, slide along the ice to the right until you reach the area you started the level (it has lots of sharks in it). Swim down and slightly to the right, swim down until you find a barrier glyph, use the key song to pass it, turn into the first passage to the right and swim along it until it's end to exit the level.

Level 8 : Hard Water - Water turns to slippery stone from the dark cold. There is great danger when the water stones move. The distance songs continue...

Swim to the surface and slide along the ice to the left, drop back into the water at the first opening. Swim to the left, you will see a block of ice moving back and forth in front of the passage going down, carefully swim past it (don't get crushed), swim to the left and down past move moving blocks of ice. Continue swimming down, when you reach the bottom swim right, swim down and get the key song from the glyph. Swim to the right and up, swim pass the moving blocks of ice, continue up and pass more moving blocks of ice. Swim to the left and you will arrive to the right of the hole in the ice you originally entered this section of the level by. Jump out of it and slide to the right along the ice, keep going until you reach the far right side of the level. Swim down, pass through some moving blocks of ice, turn left as soon as you pass the last block of ice. The area here has a large number of moving blocks but if you stay as high as you can they should pass beneath you. Use the key song to pass the barrier glyph, swim up past the moving blocks to exit the level.

Level 9 : Cold Water - Quiet songs of wisdom sing about the hard water called ice. The big blue is near.

Swim down and slight to the left, then down and slightly to the right, as soon as possible swim left and then up, you will enter a shaft with a current pushing down it, swim fast to reach the top, then leap to the left and slide along the ice (it is hard to get out of this shaft you will probably have to take several attempts). When you reach the far left get the keysong from the glyph, then slide along the ice to the right, leap over the vent with the current and the three spikes and enter the water at the next opening. Swim down, to the right, up, to the right, then down the shaft. Use the keysong to pass the barrier glyph, swim to the left and talk to big blue. After talking to big blue, swim to the right, get a key song from the glyph as you pass it, swim back up the shaft, use the keysong to pass the glyph (it will have reappeared). Swim to the right, down, right and up to get back to the surface. Slide along the ice to the right, and drop back into the water at the next opening, swim down, slightly to the right and swim down the shaft. Swim right at the first opportunity to exit the level.

***Level 10 : Open Ocean - The open ocean is hard and dangerous (only in the Sega CD/PC version)

This exactlly the same as the first open ocean level but now you are swimming the other direction.

Level 11 : Island Zone - Seven islands in warmer waters

Swim to the right, down, then to the left. Push the rock into the current and use it to get through the current. Swim to the right, down, then continue right. Swim up, you will see a glyph swim up and touch it (to get the key song) they swim away (there are some spiked balls that will start moving as soon as you move near the glyph, if you are not fast they will kill you). Retrace your steps to return to the surface near where you started the level. Jump over about four island going to the right, then swim straight down. Turn slightly to the left when you reach some spikes, swim down, then turn and swim to the right. Swim up and you will pass an octopus, swim to the right, then up slightly, use the key song to pass the barrier glyph. Swim straight down the shaft until you reach the bottom, then turn and swim to the left. Keep swimming to the left until you can't go any further, then swim upwards, then swim to the right and get the keysong from the glyph. Swim back to the left, down then swim back along the passage to the right, at the second shaft going up use the keysong to pass the barrier glyph, swim up the shaft to exit the level.

Level 12 : Deep Water - Ancient breathless passage run so deep that no songs of this place have yet been sung.

Swim to the left, down, then swim right until you reach a vent with a current coming out of it. Swim down into the vent against the current, swim into the second passage on the left. Swim left, down, left, then down the long vertical shaft. Turn and swim right, down, to the left and swim down the second long shaft. Swim right, down, left, and down the third long shaft (the left shaft not the right one). Swim from side to side to pass the spikes, then turn into the first passage going to the right, swim down and then to the right, at the end of the passage is the asterite, talk to it, then swim back to the left to exit the level.

***Level 13 : Volcanic Reef - The sunken city is through the mountain of stone. Glyphs open passages in this place. (only in the Sega CD/PC version)

Swim left and up/left when you get to the rocks you need to make a large leap up from the water to the top of the sloaping rocks, they are not solid at the top and you will fall through. Once you are over swim down, right, get the keysong from the glyph, swim left and pass the barrier glyph. Swim down and left, hit the glyph with your sonar to get access granted. Swim right, down and then left along the roof of the carvern, hit the glyph half hidden in the rocks to get access granted. Swim down/right, right, down and back left, the key glyph is hidden in some rocks, look on your sonar map to find it easily. Swim right, up, left, up, right, up, you should see a rock falling down the narrow passage to your right. Swim down the passage (it's the first vertical shaft), and lift the rock up and accross to the next shaft, let the rock drop and it will hit the barrier of rocks and break through it. Swim down and then up/right, pass the barrier glyph and then swim up/right to exit the level.

***Level 14 : Ship Grave Sea - Bones of strange floating whale are found here, they are infested with dangerous fish. (only in the Sega CD/PC version)

Swim right, down and then left along the cavern roof, hit the glyph with your sonar to get access granted. Then swim right, down/right, right, then down at the end and then left past all the falling rocks. Swim left along the upper path (you can't use the lower one anyway since there is a current blocking you), just before you get to the end of the passage swim up and hit the glyph with your sonar to become invincible for a shart time, swim down at the end of the passage, swim right when your way is blocked by rocks, then down/right, and continue right untill you reach the glyph, hit it to get access granted. Swim back left, up, right, then up and left to return to the passage just after where the falling rocks are, swim left and down to get back to when the rock barrier was, it should have now moved. Swim down to exit the level.

***Level 15 : Wreck Trap - Dangerous caves with fierce currents. The turtles may help but not willingly (only in the Sega CD/PC version)

Swim left along the sea floor untill you reach a vertical shaft with a current coming out of it. Swim down against the current and charge to pass the rock barriers. Swim left at the first passage and then up, swim right and get the keysong from the glyph, swim left and down, swim right untill you see the turtle. When the turtle is above the vertical shaft nudge it, the turtle will retreat into it's shell and you can use it like a rock to go down against the current. At the bottom swim left and get invincibility from the glyph, then swim right ans use the keysong to pass the barrier glyph. Continue right past the falling rocks, go up at the end and get invincibility from the glyph, then swim left. Charge to pass the barrier of rocks, continue left and hit the glyph to get access granted (be careful to not swim past the glyph or you will end up in a passage with a current that will suck you back in the level.), swim back right along the floor of the cavern and look for a ring of stars. When you find it push it with your sonar up/right and use it to pass the rock barrier. Swim right, right/up to exit the level.

***Level 16 : The Sea of Silence (only in the Sega CD/PC version)

Swim up, right as far as you can go and then down, hit the glyph with your sonar to have access granted. Swim down and left along the sea floor, when you come to a narrow shaft going left/down swim into it. Swim down and then left, you will find two chambers blocked off by barriers of blocks at the end of the chamber, charge to break through the upper barrier, there is an invincibility glyph inside. Swim down and right, hit the glyph to have access granted, swim back left, up and then right, once you get past the first shipwreck and the little rise of rocks after it swim down. Use on the the turtles to swim down against the current, once you get to the bottom swim left past the falling rocks and get the keysong from the keyglyph. Swim back right and then up with the current, up past the turtles and then up/right into the passage with the current coming out of it. If you swim fast enough you can break through the current, charging doesn't work very well, I would suggest you just press the swim fast button (c) as fast as you can. Once you get past the current, swim up, use the keysong to pass the barrier glyph and swim up to exit the level.

***Level 17 : Deep Gate - Very few songs by singers who guard the entrance to the marble sea. (only in the Sega CD/PC version)

Swim right and get a keysong from the glyph, renember the position of this glyph you will need to return here several times. Swim left and down, use the keysong to pass the barrier glyph, then return to the keyglyph for another keysong and return to this point. Swim down, right and use the keysong to pass the next barrier glyph, then return to the keyglyph for another keysong and return to this point. Swim down, right and then swim down with the current, swim left slightly and continue down, use the keysong to pass the barrier glyph, swim down/right untill you reach another ship wreck, turn ecco and point him down/left against the rocks, you should see an glyph, hit it with your sonar for invincibility. Swim back up/left, up and then right, up/right, you should see a barrel falling from the roof, push it right and let it drop off the ledge, follow it down and when it lands push it right untill it is above the 'shelled one' (oyster), hit the shelled one with your sonar to make it release bubbles, each time the bubbles hit the barrel it should rise slightly, after enough hit it, it should float upwards, follow it up, when it hits the roof push it left into the current, use it like a rock in reverse to swim up against the current. swim back to the surface as fast as you can (you will probally be running short of air..), get another keysong and swim back down to where the invincibility glyph is, swim right and then down, use the keysong to pass the barrier glyph, continue down and then go left along the roof of the cavern, in the alcove past the invincibilty glyph you will see a ring of stars, push it down with your sonar to about the level of the windows on the ship wreck then push it right, it will break through the rock barrier, continue right past it to exit the level.

Level 18 : The Marble Sea

Swim to the left as far as you can go, push the block into the current and use it swim down through the current. Charge to destroy the chains blocking the passage, swim to the right (if you swim to the left there is a statue that makes you invincible for a few seconds if you nudge it). Swim into the narrow passage to the right, push the block in front of you, it will destroy the chain blocking access to the chamber at the end of the passage, get the keysong from the glyph, swim back to the left pushing the ring of stars in front of you (it destroys the blocks that attack you). Swim down into the passage below the current going up, swim down as far as you can go, swim to the right, hit the glyph with your sonar it will tell you "access granted", swim back to the left and up slightly, swim right into the passage above the one with the glyph it. Use the keysong to pass the barrier glyph and swim right to exit the level.

Level 19 : The Library

Swim to the left and down at the first opportunity. If you swim right at the first opportunity you can talk to some glyphs and find out more of the story line. Just above the second opening to the right there is a secret passage in the wall with a statue that give invincibility. Swim down and left at the first opportunity (the secret passage doesn't count). Swim to the left as far as you can go, swim up, a block will fall down (there is also another invincibility statue), you need to push the block to the right, it will fall into a pit, get in the right-hand corner and push it up to the top it will drift slightly to the right and sit on the top of the pit, push it over to the right and continue this sequence until you pass all the pits. Push the block up the slope and down the other side (slowly!, if you push it of the screen it vanishes and you have to start again.) it will break through the chains, swim down, and then to the left. Talk to the glyph at the end of the passage for "access granted", swim to the right, at the end of the passage there are two rows of blocks moving up and down, swim carefully into the middle of the two rows (not! above or below) and quickly swim out the other side. Swim to the right, up, and to the left. Jump over the rocks in the way and swim down to exit the level.

Level 20 : Deep City

Prepare for one of the hardest tasks in the game, see that wall in front of ecco? (when you start the level) you have to jump over it! It looks impossible but it isn't, swim back and down so you get plenty of speed when you swim up. This will take quite a while to do (I generally take 3 or 4 attempts to do it). Once you eventually get over the wall, swim right as far as you can, swim down and to the left. Charge to get past the chain blocking the passage, swim down, then to the right, follow the falling block down the shaft at the end of the passage. When you reach the barrier glyph push the block, into the shaft with the current coming out of it, use the block to get the bottom of the shaft, swim to the left and get the keysong from the glyph, swim back up and use the keysong to pass the barrier glyph. Swim past the invincibility statue and up. Charge to pass the chain, jump over the top and swim down the passage on the other side. Charge to pass the chain, swim to the left, up, into the small passage going right near the top, up and to the left. Swim left and down diagonally. When you reach the invincibility statue, there will be a block near a passage with current coming up out of it. Use the block to go down the passage, swim into the passage on the left, pass the jellyfish, get "access granted" from the glyph, swim back up to the invincibility statue. Swim to the left, you will get sucked up into a passage by a current use the block that falls from the ceiling to get out and continue going left. you will be sucked into a second area, use the block on the right to get out, swim to the left to exit the level.

Level 21 : City of Forever

Swim to the right, down/right diagonally, right and up at the first opportunity. Swim to the right, look up you should see a statue above you, hit it with your sonar to get "access granted". Swim down and to the left, just after the slope ends and the passage wall goes vertical there is a passage that is now open, swim into it (it has bricks in front of it that makes it hard to see). Swim into the ring to be transported to just below the time machine (the two dishes). Swim up and hit it with your sonar (hit the front of a dish while between the two dishes) to go back in time (and finish the level)

Level 22 : Jurassic Beach

Swim down and to the right, hit the glyph with your sonar to call the pteranodon, swim up the surface fire your sonar while leaping out of the water and look for the pteranodon flying above the water (you may head go to the left or right to find it), leap out of the water at it and it will catch you. It will fly through the rocks to the right and drop you. Swim down the central shaft going down (if you get swept back by the current leap out of the water to get to the middle). Swim to the right and down, some of the craters in the sea floor can be swum through, swim through the one to the far right, swim down and get the keysong from the glyph, swim back up and go down another crater (use your sonar map to help), swim down and to the right, use the keysong to pass the barrier glyph. Swim down and then to the left, you will reach an invincibility glyph at the end of the passage, when you reach it swim up and to the right, get a key song from the glyph, swim back to the left, down slightly and continue going to the left. Swim up and slight to the right, use the keysong to pass the barrier glyph, swim up and then swim along to the right, to exit the level.

Level 23 : Pteranodon Pond

Swim up and to the left, leap over the island, swim down and continue left, talk to the glyph to call the pteranodon. Get picked up by the pteranodon, when it drops you, swim to the left then down, swim right then up and get a keysong from the glyph, swim down, then right, down, then left a short distance, then down, swim right and use the keysong to pass the barrier glyph. Swim right until you reach the next barrier glyph, swim up until you reach the invincibility glyph, then swim left, then go up. Get a keysong from the glyph at the top and swim back down and use the keysong to pass the barrier glyph. Swim down and to the left, go down, then swim right along the sea floor, find the glyph sticking out of a crater and get a get song. Continue swimming to the right, then up, then swim to the left, as soon as you get the chance swim up, use the key song to pass the barrier glyph. Swim right, then up, then to the right, then up slightly, let yourself get sucked up by the current, swim left and get a key song from the glyph, swim back to the right when you pass the current going up swim up and then to the right, there is a secret passage at the end (where the current goes up) swim out it, swim down, slightly to the left, and then down, use the keysong to pass the barrier glyph. Swim right and talk to the glyph to call the pteranodon, return to the surface and get carried by the pteranodon to a new area. Swim down and to the right to exit the level.

Level 24 : Origin Beach

Swim down and slightly to the right, get a key song from the glyph, swim up and to the right, leap over the island, swim down straight away, use the keysong to pass the barrier glyph. Swim to the right, then down the passage with the current coming up it. Swim to the left, swim down at the first opportunity, (the diagonal shaft going left) Swim left and then up, left and then up again. Swim diagonally up/right then turn and swim left to exit the level.

Level 25 : Trilobite Circle

Swim up, then to the right, leap over the island, swim down until you reach the seahorse. Wait until the seahorse drifts down slightly then swim through the gap between it and rocks above, get the keysong from the glyph and swim out pass the seahorse. Swim down, then to the left, use the keysong to pass the barrier glyph, continue left, then up, then right, swim straight up (DON'T let your self get sucked to the right by the current), leap out of the water to exit the level.

Level 26 : Dark water

Swim down slightly and then to the right, swim down the passage with the three jellyfish coming out of it, swim down after you pass the spiked shell moving backwards and forwards, swim to the right and up, there is an invincibility glyph in the top right hand corner. Swim down past the shells moving backwards and forwards, swim left, then up, then left, then down, get a key song from the glyph, retrace your path back to the invincibility glyph. Swim left, swim through and narrow passage with the spikes and current coming out of it, swim up, then left, use the keysong to pass the barrier glyph, swim up to reach the asterite. You now must fight the asterite it will fire lightning at you and you have to access to air, so you will have to be quick. You need to charge into a orb so it flashes, you then need to hit three other orbs of the same colour without hitting any orbs of another colour (if you do you have to start again). Once you do a timewarp will start (the end of the level).

Level 27 : Deep Water 2

This is the same as the original deep water (see level 12 for it's solution)

Level 28 : City of Forever 2

This is the same as the original city of forever (see level 21 for it's solution)

Level 29 : The Tube

This level is constantly moving up faster and faster, you should try to swim near the bottom of the screen so you have time to react to things coming in from the top, but you need to stay out of contact with the bottom of the screen or you get "stuck" to it and can't move fast. Anyway on to the level, swim in and out of the barriers sticking out from the sides of the tube, when you reach the block that moves around in the center of the tube, swim over to the left after you pass it, charge and destroy the diamond shaped things as they get in your way. Weave in and out of the barriers, when you reach the first thing that shoots lightning stay on the right of the screen, watch for barriers coming towards you, dodge to the left as soon as they appear, they swim back to the right. Continue this until you reach the top of the tube (the end of the level)

Level 30 : Welcome to the Machine

The screen on this level rather than following you moves around be itself you need to follow it to avoid being crushed. You will encounter the vortex on this level use your sonar to attack them. Firstly swim down, right, up, then right for a long distance. Then down for a good distance, then left, right, up, left and down, down to the right, swim through the narrow gap and then to the left, swim up (take the middle passage), swim out one of the small gaps to the right, continue up and then go left slightly, then up again. Left for a while then down for a while, then right, down then left. Swim up then go left through one of the small gaps into the small area, when the screen moves away swim back out one of the gaps and swim up and to the right, then left and up, then left, then left and up. Then up, then up and to the left, up to the left, then up to the right, then to the left, up, down and back to the right, then up and to the right, down, then right, up, slightly left, up and then to the left. then down, right slightly, continue down, left , down, right, down, right, down, right, down, left (upper passage), up, left and down to exit the level.

Level 31 : The Last Fight

You will you start the level dropping down a shaft with vortex below you (use your sonar to destroy them before you hit then as you health DOES'T regenerate on this level), swim to the opposite side of the chamber as the vortex queen (the giant vortex head) and hit it's eyes with your sonar, since you are on the opposite side to it the balls that fire out of the head when you hit it should miss you, when it approaches your side of the level swim under it and attack it's other eye from the other side of the level, continue this pattern until both it's eyes pop out. You now need to charge into it's jaw and swim away so you are not sucked in, after three hits the jaw will break off but it will regenerate a number of times, When the jaw has been permanently destroyed, charge into the side of the head and it will flash red and produce a vortex creature, kill the vortex creature and continue to hit the side of the head until the head starts spewing jellyfish and dolphins. Congratulations you have completed the game!